<!--
GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT
This file was generated by [MarkdownSnippets](https://github.com/SimonCropp/MarkdownSnippets).
Source File: /docs/ApprovalTests/mdsource/ReportersGettingStarted.source.md
To change this file edit the source file and then run MarkdownSnippets.
-->

# Getting Started with Reporters

<!-- toc -->
## Contents

  * [Configuring Reporters](#configuring-reporters)
    * [Launching Multiple Reporters](#launching-multiple-reporters)
  * [When to use different reporters](#when-to-use-different-reporters)
    * [Differences](#differences)
    * [Rendering](#rendering)
    * [Exploring Results](#exploring-results)
    * [Approving](#approving)<!-- endToc -->


## Configuring Reporters

Reporters are set using the `[UseReporter(typeof(YourReporter))]` attribute. This can occur in 3 different places, and will be used in order of least surprise.

1. On the method
1. On the Class
1. On the assembly

ApprovalTests suggest you make a assembly level configuration file for approvaltests named `ApprovalTestsConfig.cs`:  

<!-- snippet: config_file -->
<a id='snippet-config_file'></a>
```cs
[assembly: UseReporter(typeof(DiffReporter))]
```
<sup><a href='/src/ApprovalTests.Tests/ApprovalTestsConfig.cs#L1-L4' title='Snippet source file'>snippet source</a> | <a href='#snippet-config_file' title='Start of snippet'>anchor</a></sup>
<!-- endSnippet -->


### Launching Multiple Reporters

If you wanted to have multiple reporters launch on failure, you can also combine as many as you wish using the following syntax: 

<!-- snippet: multiple_reporters -->
<a id='snippet-multiple_reporters'></a>
```cs
[UseReporter(typeof(DiffReporter), typeof(FileLauncherReporter))]
```
<sup><a href='/src/ApprovalTests.Tests/Html/HtmlTest.cs#L2-L4' title='Snippet source file'>snippet source</a> | <a href='#snippet-multiple_reporters' title='Start of snippet'>anchor</a></sup>
<!-- endSnippet -->


## When to use different reporters

Reporters help you in different ways

1. To see differences in your test results
1. To see how a test result would render
1. To explore a test result or domain 
1. To approve / manipulate a test result

Based on what you are doing, you will want to switch which reporter you are using. Maybe even use multiple reporters at a time to accomplish different roles.


### Differences

The main use for seeing differences is to use a reporter that will open a DiffTool. [Full list of supported diff tools here](Reporters.md#supported-diff-tools)


### Rendering

Let's say your test result is some HTML. In the beginning you might want to render it in a bowser to be able to see that it is indeed what you want. In this moment, try the  `FileLauncherReporter`. Which will open the `.received.` file in the application associated to it on your machine.

This is useful for many types of test results including, xml, svg, csv, html, images, sound files, etc...


### Exploring Results

Like rendering, you might need to use different tools to examine a file to see that it's what you actually want. Sometimes you need to open them in excel or other places just to play. If you don't have a reporter that will open in your desired tool (and you don't want to [build a custom one](Reporters.md#making-custom-reporters)) you might just want to use the `QuiteReporter` which will do nothing, allowing you to open whatever you need without disruption.


### Approving

DiffTools can be a great way to approve most text files (just copy everything to the `.approved.` file.) However, some DiffTools will break this because they are trying to help (prettifing, trimming or otherwise formatting the text)
The `ClipboardReporter` or `AllFailingTestsClipboardReporter` can be useful in these cases. Writing the command line text to move the files to your clipboard so you can paste them into your terminal to approve the test.



---

[Back to User Guide](readme.md#top)
